# UPDATE BY QUERY

- to update multiple documents in one query.
- similar to `UPDATE WHERE` query in RDBMS.
- the query uses: PT, SN and Optimistic Concurrency Control.
- use `_update_by_query` API:
```
POST /products/_update_by_query
{
  "script": {
    "source":"ctx._source.in_stock--"
  },
  "query": {
    "match_all": {}
  }
}
```
This will udpate all the documents which match the search `query` object. In this case, all.
Running this gives:
```
{
  "took" : 299,
  "timed_out" : false,
  "total" : 3,
  "updated" : 3,
  "deleted" : 0,
  "batches" : 1,
  "version_conflicts" : 0,
  "noops" : 0,
  "retries" : {
    "bulk" : 0,
    "search" : 0
  },
  "throttled_millis" : 0,
  "requests_per_second" : -1.0,
  "throttled_until_millis" : 0,
  "failures" : [ ]
}
```
 We can see that 3 documents were updated. `"updated" : 3`,
 
 #### HOW QUERY WORKS INTERNALLY:
 
- When ES receives `_update_by_query` request, a snapshot of the `index` is created. When the snapshot is taken, the search `query` is sent to each of the index's shards to find documents which match the search which is specified in `query` object. Whenever a search query matches any documents, a bulk update request is sent to update those documents. The `"batches"` in above result shows how many batches were used to retrieve the documents. The query internally uses **SCROLL API** to handle thousands of results from search.

- Each pair of search and bulk update are sent sequentially to replication groups.
Why it is not done parallely is because the way errors are handled. If search or bulk update results in some error,ES tries upto 10 times. The number of retries is specified in `"retried"` key for both search and bulk queries. If the query is still not successful, the whole query is aborted (**not rolled-back**). Failures will be specified in the `"failures"` key.

Snapshots are taken to prevent overwriting changes made after the snapshot was taken.
To ensure this, the ES uses PT and SN for each `document`. If the `document` has been changed, it would cause a conflict and the `document` will not be updated. This is called **optimistic concurrency control**.
\# of version conflcits is returned within version_conflicts key within the query result.
if you don't want the query to be aborted when conflict happens, you can use `"conflicts": "proceed"` in the request body. Or can be added to the query parameter:
```
POST /products/_update_by_query
{
  "conflicts":"proceed",
  "script": {
    "source":"ctx._source.in_stock--"
  },
  "query": {
    "match_all": {}
  }
}
```
This will ensure that this will ensure that the query is not aborted and `version_conflicts` is updated.