## Understanding the Relevance Score (`_score`)
ES does this and provides data on how well a document matches which is usually absent in RDBMS.  
Before calculating relevance of matches, ES will determine if document matches the query using boolean model. This is to avoid having to compute relevant scores for document that won't be part of the results anyway.  
The reelvant score is represented by `_score` which holds a floating point value.

### How ES calculates

- depends on the type of search query.
- algorithms can be changed by the user.
- uptil recently, ES used to use TF/IDF (Term Frequency/Inverse Document Frequency) algorithms
- now Okapi BM25 is used which shares many similarities with the older one.

### Factors used to calculate `_score`

**TF**:
- how many times does the term appear in the field for a given document?
- more times of appearance - more relevance at least for that term.
- example: if _salad_ is twice in a field and we search _salad_ term, this makes it more relevant than if the term was there only once or not at all.

**LDF**:
- how often the term appears within the index (ie across all documents)?
- the more often the term appears, the lower the score and relevance.
- logic: if a term appears in many documents then it has a lower weight (i.e. the words that appear many times are less significant such as the, this, if etc)
- so, if a document contains the term and it's not a common term for the fields then it's a signal that the document is relevant.

**Field Length Norm**
- how long is the field?
- longer the field, less likely the words within the field are to be relevant.
- example: the term _salad_ in a title of 50 characters is more significant than in a 5000 character description.
- so, terms appearing in short fields have more weight than in a long field.

:poop: TF, IDF and Field Length Norm are calculated and stored at index time. i.e. when a document is added or updated. These stored values are used to calculate the weight of a given term for a particular document.  
:poop: individual queries may include other factors for calculating the score of a match such as term proximity or fussiness for accounting for typos.

