## Query Contexts

A query can be executed in 2 ways:

1. Query Context
2. Filter Context

### Query Context

- how well do documents match this query.
- ES decides whether the documents match query + relevance score will be calculated.

### Filter Context
query clauses can be added to the filter context.
- in this we ask ES : do documents match the query clause?
- documents that do not match the query clause will not be part of the result which is similar to the query context.
- in this context, ES does not calculate the relevance score because it is a boolean evaluation i.e. a document either match or does not.
- if it does, it becomes a part of the result, if it does not, it is removed from the result.
- filter context is used to filter data such as dates, statuses, ranges etc.
- example: find products added more than a month ago that have status as unpublished.

### Difference between Query Context and Filter Context
** Relevance Score Calculation**

We should choose a context on whether or not we want query clause to affect the relevance score of the matching documents. If you want that, then add that to query clause (query object).  
If you want documents where the terms appear more than once with more relevance and other relevance factors to be taken into calculation, go for query context.  
If you just want to match documents with a term regardless of how well the documents match, go for filter context.<br><br><br>

Reason to choose filter context in some conditions is that it is more efficient not to calculate the relevance score if we don't need that. Plus, *ES can cache filters*.