# Compound Queries : Querying with boolean logic
*Compound queries are combination of leaf queries or compound queries to create advance queries. They act as wrapper to leaf queries.*

- querying with boolean is similar to that of `where ` clause in RDBMS, but it is advanced and uses relevance.
- achieved by using `bool` keyword.
- before this, we need to recap on `filter` and `query` context because context is essential to boolean queries.
- within `query` context, relevance scores are calculated and documents are ordered based on how well they match the given query.
- while in `filter` context, what matters is whether a document matches or not the given query and not how well it matches the query.
- if you want to search a recipe which takes less than 15 minutes to prepare, you could write the query this way:
```
GET /recipe/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "match": {
            "ingredients.name": "parmesan"
          }
        },
        {
          "range": {
            "preparation_time_minutes": {
              "lte": 15
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

- in the query, both the queries (`match` and `range`) must satisfy. BTS, the ES searches with and `and`.
- both the queries will contribute to the relevance score. Meaning that the documents must be matched by all queries in `must` array, its also scored on how well it matches those queries.
- now, the `preparation_time_minutes` does not really contribute (in terms of relevance) to the relevance score of the document and also gets unnecessarily involved in the relevance score calculation, it is better to keep the `range` query in a `filter` query.
- while ES is smart enough to apply the constant score of 1 while dealing with `range` query when placed in `must` array, `filter` has an edge.
- in `filter` query, the documents are checked for whether they match the query or not. That's it. They are run in `filter` context which is why scoring is ignored.
- caching is another plus point in using `filter` query. `filter` query clauses can be cached for subsequent queries. This is because there is no notion of how well a document match and directly depends on the query.
- moving the `range` query to `filter` object:
```
GET /recipe/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "match": {
            "ingredients.name": "parmesan"
          }
        }
      ],
      "filter": [
        {
          "range": {
            "preparation_time_minutes": {
              "lte": 15
            }
          }  
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

This query gives exactly the same result.<br><br>

Now, if we want to remove some results which contain certain term, we can use `must_not` query:
```
GET /recipe/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "match": {
            "ingredients.name": "parmesan"
          }
        }
      ],
      "must_not": [
        {
          "match": {
            "ingredients.name": "tuna"
          }
        }
      ], 
      "filter": [
        {
          "range": {
            "preparation_time_minutes": {
              "lte": 15
            }
          }  
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```
- query clauses in `must_not` are executed in the `filter` context. Exactly as the `filter` object. Scoring is therefore ignored and a score of 0 is returned for all the documents.<br>
- As for the `filter` context, queries in `must_not` are also considered for query caching. But there is no guarantee that the query will be cached. Although the chances are that it will be.<br>

- now, if I want to add a term which if there is in the document, the document should be ranked higher. This can be achieved by using `should` query:

```
GET /recipe/_search
{
  "query": {
    "bool": {
      "must": [
        {
          "match": {
            "ingredients.name": "parmesan"
          }
        }
      ],
      "must_not": [
        {
          "match": {
            "ingredients.name": "tuna"
          }
        }
      ],
      "should": [
        {
          "match": {
            "ingredients.name": "parsley"
          }
        }
      ], 
      "filter": [
        {
          "range": {
            "preparation_time_minutes": {
              "lte": 15
            }
          }  
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

- the `should` object is special. It means that the queries in this boost the scores but they are not required to match. So, the recipe which has 'parsley'  is likely to score higher than the one which does not have it.<br>
- `should` is special because its behaviour depends on the `bool` and what it contains as a whole.<br>
- if the `bool` query is in `query` context and contains `must` or `filter` object, then the `should` query need not necessarily match the document as a whole. In this case, the only purpose of `should` is to influence the relevance of the documents.<br>
- if the `bool` is in `filter` context or if it does not have `must` or `filter` object, then at least one of the `should` queries should match.<br>
- this is because the `should` queries are intended to boost the  documents matching a set of queries but the document should satify some constraints. Otherwise every single document in an index would be matched. this can be controlled with the `minumum_should_match` paramter which allows you to define how many `should` clauses should match.


*`must`, `should`, `must_not` and `filter` are specified in an array. you can specify an object instead of an array but specifying an array is a good practice which allows you to specify more than one query*<br><br>