## Matching documents with non-null values

Before we start on this, two things:
### `_field_names`
contains the names of every field that contains a non-null value. This is used with `exists`. ES uses this meta field internally when finding documents that contain a non-null value for a given field.

### `null_mapping`
if ES receives a field's value as `null` and that field has `null_value` parameter specified, it'll replace the `null` with the value that is specified in the `null_value` parameter. this does not affect the `_source` value but only the value that is indexed. Note: `null` values cannot be indexed or searched. For instance:
```
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "status_code": {
        "type":       "keyword",
        "null_value": "NULL" 
      }
    }
  }
}

PUT my_index/_doc/1
{
  "status_code": null
}

PUT my_index/_doc/2
{
  "status_code": [] 
}

GET my_index/_search
{
  "query": {
    "term": {
      "status_code": "NULL" 
    }
  }
}
```
First `PUT`: Replace explicit `null` values with the term `NULL`.<br>
Third `PUT`: Replace explicit `null` values with the term `NULL`.<br>
`GET`: A query for `NULL` returns document 1, but not document 2.<br>
:warning: : The `null_value` needs to be the same datatype as the field. For instance, a `long` field cannot have a string `null_value`.
:white_flag: The `null_value` only influences how data is indexed, it doesn’t modify the `_source` document.


# Now for the main part:
- this type is used to match documents that have at least 1 `non-null` value for a given field.
- used with `exists`
- empty string is not considered as `null` and will match with `exists` query. However, an array should have at least 1 `non-null` value to match `exists`.

Let's take an example:
```
GET /products/_search
{
  "query": {
    "exists": {
      "field": "tags"
    }
  }
}
```
This fetches all the document which have `tags` field with at least 1 value.