# BATCH PROCESSING

- That's done using Bulk API
- Accepts a number of lines each separated by a new line `(\n \r\n)`
- The Bulk API expects data formatted using NDJSON specification.

example:
```
POST /_bulk
{ "index":{ "_index": "products", "_id":200 } }
{ "name": "Espresso Machine", "price":199, "in_stock":5 }
{ "create": { "_index":"products","_id":201 }}
{ "name": "Milk Frother", "price":149, "in_stock"14 }
```
line `{ "index":{ "_index": "products", "_id":200 } }` is indexing<br>
line `{ "name": "Espresso Machine", "price":199, "in_stock":5 }` creates new document associated with above index<br>
line `{ "create": { "_index":"products","_id":201 }}` create new<br>

```
POST /_bulk
{ "update": { "_index":"products","_id":201 } }
{ "doc":{ "in_stock":99 }}
{ "delete": { "_index":"products", "_id":200 } }
```
Instead of `{ "doc":{ "in_stock":99 }}`, a script can also be added.<br>
There is only one line for delete.

The above query can be written as below:
```
POST /products/_bulk
{ "update": {"_id":201 } }
{ "doc":{ "in_stock":99 } }
{ "delete": {"_id":200 } }
```
**index v create: create fails if document exists.**

### WARNINGS for using BULK API:

- The HTTP Content-Type header should be set as:
```
Content-Type: application/x-ndjson
```
- The console tool (like Kibana) handles it for us.

- Each of the line must end with a new line character including last line. Basically, last line must be blank.
Do not type out `\n` or `\r\n` in a text editor.

- If a single action fails, it will not affect other actions. All action results are returned in the response.
- inspect the items key to see if a given action succeeded. The order is the same as the actions within the request.
- The errors key tells us if there are any errors.


- Routing is used to resolve a document's shard in bulk API as well.
- The Bulk API supports optimistic concurrency control. So, you can include `if_primary_term` and `if_seq_no` parameters within the action metadata.