# WRITING DATA

First received by primary shard via routing process. Validation is done and after this performs it locally and sends parallely to replica shards.
*Operation will succeed even if the operation cannot be replicated to the replica shards.*

Problem: If B receives it and passes to replica shards B1 and B2 for copying, but at the same time, B goes down and B2 replica shard didn't get the chance to update. Now, B2 becomes primary shard and now we have problem of data mismatch with B1 replica shard and B2 primary shard. This is a rare case, though.
ES solves it and other issues by:

GLOBAL AND LOCAL CHECKPOINTS:

* both are sequence numbers.
* each replication group has a global checkpoint.
* each reploca shard has a local checkpoint.
* any operations containing a sequence number lower than the global checkpoint have already been performed on alll shards within the replication group.
* if primary shard fails and rejoins later, ES only need to compare operations that are above the global checkpoints that it last knew about.
* likewise, if replica shard fails, only operations that are higher than its local checkpoint need to be applied when it comes back.
* es compares only operations that were performed while it was gone instead of the entire history, the replication group.

DOCUMENT VERSIONING

It is not revision history and is stored in _version metadata field. This is of limited use, though.
It was thought of a way to handle optimistic concurrency control.
Old Cluser versions use this field.

If you delete a document, the value is retained for 60 seconds by default and if within 60 seconds we index a new document, the `_version` is incremented by one and stored. Otherwise it is 1.
Configured with index.gc_deletes.

This is called internal versioning.
There is external versioning where you maintain version of document outside of ES such as RDBMS.

To do that, use version and version_type:
```
PUT /products/_doc/123?version=521&version_type=external
{
	"name": "Coffee Maker",
	"price":64,
	"in_stock":10
}
```